---
title: A Family Affair
date: 2021/3/19
description: For fifteen years, my parents worked together at the same brick building ...
tag: Short Stories
author: Justin Shaw
---

# A Family Affair

For fifteen years, my parents worked together at the same brick building overlooking the bustling streets of downtown Tacoma, Washington. My grandpa worked there too, after they merged with a firm he founded. And in the early days of the company, my grandma worked the books. My great grandfather was a painter, and son of an immigrant carpenter in Ellensburg. It was a family affair. Five generations of Shaws, united in their collective affinity for art and craftsmanship. Architecture was the family business.

With my mom and dad at work, I spent the days at my grandparents’ house with my sister and my aunt’s twin daughters. Guided by my grandpa, we would study the works of the masters to learn how Leonardo, the scientist, meticulously calculated the divinity of the human figure from measurements of corpses so he could conjure that ineffable beauty on stretched canvas. And how Michelangelo, the sculptor, built bodies with cold, steely eyes that seemed to dare fate, carved bit-by-bit out of a block of Carrara marble.

Growing up as an aspiring physicist in a multi-generational family of artists, I was chasing my own white whale of social acceptance. The girls were gifted, routinely dolling out sketches on the backs of napkins that could seemingly come to life and jump right off the page. Needless to say, my stick figures never made the fridge, so I spent most of those formative years trying to fit in. I put away my LEGOs, and became invested in the chaotic and retrospectively problematic world of Barbie. I painted my nails with them too, but try as I might I never felt included.

My parents are the hardest working people I know, yet somehow they still found time to nurture my scientific curiosity. After each long day at the firm, my dad would set his bag down, come into my room, and flop down beside me in bed ready with another Magic Box Problem. “If a box doubles in volume every two days, how much bigger will it be in eight days?” The math was simple, but playing with intriguing problems in my head was always the highlight of my day.

I remember sitting on the floor one Sunday morning watching Bloomberg with my dad. The host feverishly jumped from expert to expert as they explained credit default swaps and the subprime mortgage disaster that caused the steep red graphs we were seeing on the screen. The spectre of economic decline was only the beginning. A few years later, long after the market spectacle had ended, the aftermath of the great recession hit the family business and both my parents lost their jobs. Our sinking ship sparked nightly hushed conversations about finances from my parent's bedroom, and for a time, my mom worked two jobs just to make ends meet. I didn’t know it then, but the nights of Magic Box Problems were over. I would have to continue chasing that white whale on my own. The only thing saving me from Ahab’s fate was my grandparents’ 1999 Dell XPS T600. Oh, baby!

Every day after school, I would jump off the bus and run down the gravel road to my grandparents house where I would eagerly slide in the floppy disk to play my new favorite game: Commander Keen. I had found it in their dusty white file cabinet, mixed in with old versions of windows and files from the early days of the firm. Keen was my alter-ego, a young boy who built himself a homemade rocket to escape life on Earth and put his skills to use exploring other worlds, helping those in need. He was confident, ingenuitive, and through his extraterrestrial adventures, we became men.

This spring, I once again found myself sitting on the floor watching Bloomberg with my dad. For the third time in two weeks, the historic clang of the opening bell was met moments later with an eerie buzzer. A circuit-breaker. Market fears were rising like a tempest destined to sink the armada. Our eyes watched as the red line surged downwards. In the meantime, we have turned our house into a makeshift battleship. My dad has taken command of the dining room table, and my mom has invaded my sister’s old room. I nested myself at the small black desk on the top of the stairs.

With my parents on calls all day, I am left without a quiet place to work. Our bandwidth is limited, forcing us to ration internet usage. Zoom meetings cut in and out, and with them my ability to focus and participate in class discussions. Add to that a global pandemic and a renewed collective focus on civil rights, my grades seemed irrelevant. This quarter, I opted out of standard grading keen on putting my skills to use in the current environment rather than focus on 4.o-ing my classes. I believe that what you do is a reflection of what you value, and that is the best arbiter of admission even among the highly-competitive pool of applicants to the Allen School.

With a new perspective on what I truly valued, I co-founded Tutorly to help students learn – with the understanding that we meet again in the fall, we should hold ourselves to a higher standard of productivity when we make the effort to meet face-to-face. After winning the People’s Choice Award and a Launch Fund seed grant from Seattle Pacific University, Tutorly has helped me learn the importance of graphic design, product marketing, and collective decision-making.

More than just code for physics experiments, I now see computer science as an artistic process that brings out the master craftsman in all of us and empowers others to conjure their own ineffable beauty. It’s a process filled with a diverse group of people, united in our collective affinity for inclusion. We all chase our own white whales, formed from a diverse set of backgrounds, experiences, and circumstances. But unlike Captain Ahab, at the end of my search, I found myself. I am a Software Architect. After all, Architecture is the family business.
